# DataComponent
Namespace: adsk.core
Inherits: Base
Since: May 2024

An object that provides ID's that can be used to access the component using MFG DM API. These ID's are generated by the MFG DM API when a file is saved. For that reason, they are not available from a component before its parent file is saved.

**Accessed from:** BaseComponent.dataComponent, Component.dataComponent, Design.rootDataComponent, FlatPatternComponent.dataComponent, FlatPatternProduct.rootDataComponent, Occurrence.dataComponent, WorkingModel.rootDataComponent

## Methods

### [static] classType() -> string
Static function that all classes support that returns the type of the class as a string. The returned string matches the string returned by the objectType property. For example if you have a reference to an object and you want to check if it's a SketchLine you can use myObject.objectType == fusion.SketchLine.classType().
- **Returns** (string): Returns a string indicating the type of the object.

## Properties

### component : Base [read-only]
Get the fusion.Component that corresponds to this data component.

### id : string [read-only]
Gets the unique ID of this DataComponent. This ID can be used within the MFG DM API. This ID is created by the MFG DM API when the component is first saved.

### isValid : boolean [read-only]
Indicates if this object is still valid, i.e. hasn't been deleted or some other action done to invalidate the reference.

### mfgdmModelId : string [read-only]
Get the MFGDM model Id.

### objectType : string [read-only]
This property is supported by all objects in the API and returns a string that contains the full name (namespace::objecttype) describing the type of the object.

It's often useful to use this in combination with the classType method to see if an object is a certain type. For example: if obj.objectType == adsk.core.Point3D.classType():

### timestamp : string [read-only]
Get the resolution timestamp.

### versionId : string [read-only]
Returns the unique ID of this file version of the DataComponent. This ID is updated whenever the document the component exists within is saved.

## Samples
- **Gets all properties using GraphQL**: Fetches bulk component properties of the root component and from occurrences via single GraphQL query.
- **Get part number using GraphQL**: Fetches part number of root component and from occurrences via GQL query.
- **Set part number using GraphQL**: Sets part number of root component and from occurrences via GQL query.
